Add deploying footnote for sapper build (#1366)
sveltejs/sapper: site/content/docs/11-deploying.md

title: Deployment
---

Sapper apps run anywhere that supports Node 10 or higher.

### Deploying from sapper build

> If you're deploying your app to a different machine than the one you're building on, you will need to copy your `package.json` over and install your production dependencies (required by `server.js`) using `--only=prod` (or `--only=production`):

Reviewer: I think it's a bit prescriptive to say that the installation has to happen on the production machine. Also, it's a bit redundant to include the flags here since they're shown below. What about something like?

```suggestion
You will need to have the server's dependencies available on your production machine. You can either install the dependencies on a machine with an empty `node_module/` folder and copy that folder over or you can make the `package.json` available on the production machine and install the dependencies there. Production dependencies can be installed with:
```

Reviewer: If the folder isn't empty to start then I imagine that you could have dev dependencies in there. I haven't actually tested to see if you run with the production flag whether it will remove those, but I'm assuming it'd leave them there. And yes, I accidentally left off an `s`, which should be included

Author: I'm also not sure if the production flag for `npm i` would remove dev packages or not, but I guess this is where `npm ci --prod` would be useful because it automatically removes preexisting `node_modules` folder before it begins its install.

Reviewer: Ah, that's good to know. I guess in that case with the `npm ci --prod` command we could drop the part about starting with an empty folder

Author: Okay, I've added the changes here with a slight tweak. Resolving this in favor of the updated changes made

```bash

> npm install --only=prod

Reviewer: Yes, you should copy over your `package.json` and `package-lock.json`. I would recommend that even with `npm install`

```

> Other than `__sapper__/build` directory and `package.json`, you will also need to include your `static` directory and its contents.

Reviewer: I don't think you actually need the `package.json` to be deployed to the prod machine

```suggestion
You will also need to run `npm run build` and then make the `__sapper__/build` and `static` directories available on the production machine (either by building it there or by copying over the resulting files).
```

Author: I agree, it's the same case as the first statement where it can be both copied or built directly. I think we should also say how to run the app (like building section) to replace `npm start` that `package.json` included, something like

> You can then start your app by running `node __sapper__/build`

Aside from that, perhaps it's better to just make sure `__sapper__/build` is included at the start of this section since `npm run build` has been mentioned in building section.

Reviewer: > You can then start your app by running `node __sapper__/build`

That makes sense to me

> Aside from that, perhaps it's better to just make sure __sapper__/build is included at the start of this section since npm run build has been mentioned in building section.

I think it's okay to mention that `npm run build` should be run. I'd rather be more explicit than leave out a step

title: Deployment
---

Sapper apps run anywhere that supports Node 10 or higher.

> ### Deploying from sapper build

Reviewer: I feel like it's gotten a bit muddled with interleaving stuff about building on one machine vs another. What if we just cover building and running and then talk about possibly transferring the files to another machine.

### Deploying the build output

You can install the production dependencies and build Sapper with:

```bash
npm ci --prod
npm run build
```

You can now run Sapper with:

```bash
node __sapper__/build
```

If you'd like to build on one machine and run on another, you can copy the `__sapper__/build`, `static`, and `node_modules` directories. For example, you could zip those directories and then transfer the zip to another machine.

```bash
zip -r build.zip static __sapper__/build node_modules
```

Author: Thanks for the summary, I took a page out of this but decided to keep the title as is, since
1. Deploying the build output implies that user has already built the output beforehand
2. It has been covered in building section and assuming from the recent comments, we're trying to focus on how to run the app
3. Running `npm run build` after `npm ci --prod` would fail and exit with an error because preexisting `node_modules` are removed and sapper module as `devDependencies` would not exist

I've removed the build command and reordered the sentences a bit, please let me know again if there's more improvements to be made.

> We will need to have `server.js` dependencies available on the production machine. You can either install the dependencies locally or have the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` available on the production machine and install the dependencies there. Production dependencies can be installed with:

Reviewer: The text switches back and forth between "we" and "you", which reads funny. Let's stick with one or the other for consistency. It seems like the rest of the docs you "you" more than "we"

```suggestion
You will need to have `server.js` dependencies available on the production machine. You can either install the dependencies locally or have the `package.json` and `package-lock.json` available on the production machine and install the dependencies there. Production dependencies can be installed with:
```

```bash
npm ci --prod
```

> Make sure to run `npm run build` and have `__sapper__/build` directory generated before proceeding. We will also need to include the `static` directory in the production machine, you can then start your app with:

Author: > before proceeding.

I'm still not 100% sure about this, is this clear enough to imply that `npm run build` can be installed locally or in the production, just like `npm ci` command, or should it be stated again with something like

```suggestion
Make sure to run `npm run build` and have `__sapper__/build` directory generated, just like with the production dependencies, this can happen locally or on the production machine. We will also need to include the `static` directory in the production machine, you can then start your app with:
```

> Sapper apps run anywhere that supports Node 8 or higher.

Author: ```suggestion
Sapper apps run anywhere that supports Node 12 or higher.
```

According to https://github.com/sveltejs/sapper-template/issues/206#issuecomment-596485705, Node 8 support has been dropped. Should this be changed to the latest LTS version too?

Reviewer: I think saying "Node 10 or higher" here would be most accurate
